# finalyear
Automatic Door Monitoring and Smart Lighting System using WOT

The most important considerations in current technologies are automation, energy consumption and profitability. Automation aims to reduce the workforce through the use of intelligent systems. The project aims to describe a method of controlling lights and appliances with infrared sensors with minimal electrical energy consumption. When presence is detected, the streetlights are lit or off. Whenever a person crosses particular area, the lights on and off depend on the distance that is recorded by the infrared sensor. 
This project has an automatic door monitoring system that uses Raspberry Pi to recognize the face with the camera. If the authorized person has come, the door is unlocked, otherwise it is locked. However, the current security system has many weaknesses, where it is simply expressed. Most doors are controlled by persons with keys, security cards, counter-signs or models for opening doors. This project is intended to help users improve door safety for sensitive areas by using face recognition. The system consists mainly, image capture, face recognition and recognition, e-mail notification, and automatic door access management. OpenCV is used for face reorganization because it uses in-face and scaled facial images without losing the essential features. The door lock can also be accessed from anywhere in the world via the Android app. The image taken by the Pi camera will be emailed to the authorized person for security reasons. 
It describes the design and development of a remote-control system for appliances with Raspberry Pi and Android mobile phones. If everything is embedded or connected with Raspberry Pi one can control most of the appliances from anywhere in the world. Smart lighting is controlling the lights and appliances in the home and office, whether a person is available in the place or elsewhere the reliable can be allowed remotely inside the building by unlocking the door using android application.
